DOCSP-45176: Run a command (#130)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/databases-collections/run-command.txt

.. literalinclude:: /includes/databases-collections/run-command.rb
    :language: scala
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-db
    :end-before: end-db

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

Execute a Command
-----------------

To run a database command, run the ``command`` instance method of a ``Mongo::Database``
instance and pass the name of the operation to run as a parameter.

The following example calls the ``command`` method to run the ``hello`` command, which
returns information about the server:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/databases-collections/run-command.rb
   :language: scala
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-hello
   :end-before: end-hello

.. tip::

   To view a full list of database commands and their corresponding
   parameters, see :manual:`Database Commands </reference/command/>` in 
   the {+mdb-server+} manual.

Set a Read Preference
----------------------

The ``command`` method does not inherit the read preference you might
have set on your ``Database`` instance. By default, ``command``
uses the ``primary`` read preference.

> You can set a read preference for the command execution by passing a
> ``ReadPreference`` instance as a parameter to ``command``, as
> shown in the following code:

Reviewer: The example given after this paragraph does not use a ``ReadPreference`` instance, instead passing a hash of read preference options. Maybe the paragraph could be adjusted something like:

```suggestion
You can set a read preference for the command execution by passing the
``:read`` option to the ``command`` method, as shown in the following code:
```

   
.. literalinclude:: /includes/databases-collections/run-command.rb
   :language: scala
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-readpref
   :end-before: end-readpref

.. tip::

   To learn more about read preference options, see :manual:`Read
   Preference </core/read-preference/>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

Response
--------

The ``command`` method returns a ``Mongo::Operation::Result`` that contains
the response from the database for the given command.

You can access the fields of the raw command response document by using the following
methods:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``acknowledged?``
     - Returns ``true`` if the server acknowledged the command, and ``false`` otherwise.

   * - ``inspect``
     - Returns a formatted string representation of the command response.

   * - ``ok?``
     - Returns ``true`` if the command succeeded, and ``false`` otherwise. If the ``ok?``

>        method returns ``false``The driver raises a ``Mongo::Error::OperationFailure`` .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       method returns ``false``, the driver raises a ``Mongo::Error::OperationFailure`` .
```
